Lagos – Vice-President Yemi Osinbajo has pledged the support of the government to fight piracy in the entertainment industry. Osinbajo, represented by Mr Afam Ezekude, Director-General, Nigerian Copyright Commission (NCC), said this at the 2O15 COSON lecture with the theme Intellectual Property Rights In the Digital Economy” in Lagos. He said that a law would be enacted to provide a comprehensive protection of rights as well as stringent penalties for violations. “The law will provide sanctions that are directly proportional to the unlawful profit made by those that infringe on the intellectual property of others. “The law will‎ also create a seamless transition from analogue to digital modes of exploitation,’’ Osinbajo said. He stressed the need to review copyright laws because the review of the framework was at this point critical to the survival of the copyright system in Nigeria. The vice-president said that the exercise had become imperative given the need for the nation to diversify its economy.[pro_ad_display_adzone id=”70560″] “The potential of the creative industry as economic drivers cannot be overemphasised. “Their wealth creation and employment generation prospects are very significant,’’ he said. Osinbajo urged Nigerians to respect ‎rights of creators and shun acts of criminality with respect to creative works. Meanwhile, Prof. Bankole Sodipo, the Guest Lecturer, has said that the entertainment industry will improve significantly if the requisite facilities are put in place. Sodipo, in his lecture, urged the Federal Government to improve infrastructure, encourage local hardware production and also to promote digital literacy. He commended the efforts of the Nigeria Copyright Commission (NCC) in its fight against the pirating of intellectual property in the industry. He, however, called on Nigerians and relevant stakeholders to support the implementation of the copyright bill that was recently sent to the National Assembly. Sodipo added that the bill on the review of copyright laws must be approved and signed into law to protect intellectual property right of owners. Earlier, Mr Tony Okoroji, Chairman, Copyright Society of Nigeria (COSON), said that his organisation would continue to encourage creativity in the entertainment industry. Okoroji said that COSON would also continue to create good atmosphere for creative works to thrive in the industry.(NAN)