Abuja  – The Minister of Information and Culture, Alhaji Lai Mohammed, has urged media professionals to galvanise support among the populace for the war on terrorism.
They minister made the call at the maiden Interactive Session with media professionals on Friday in Abuja.
He described terrorism as a major challenge facing the nation.
“The war against terrorism is not a war for the military alone but for all Nigerians.
“The media must reflect this in their reporting and galvanize the people to know that it is not just a battle against a few insurgents but a war for the very survival of our nation.
“It is important for the media to report the fact that the military has turned the tide against the insurgents, degrading their ability to carry out spectacular attacks and retaking captured territories
“`This has thus paved the way for displaced persons to gradually return to their homes, for schools that have been destroyed to be rebuilt and for pupils who could not go to school to do so.’’
The minister charged the media ”not to remain on the fence” over the issue of national unity.
“If anything, we have taken our unity for granted and have not made a conscious and concerted effort to constantly service and strengthen it.
“Unfortunately, what started as a crack is now widening into a gorge’’, he said.
The minister said media must not remain on the fence when the issue of national unity was involved.
“They must carry out their duties in such a way that will unite, rather than divide our people.
“Our unity is fragile, and the fragility comes into the open at a time of economic downturn as we have now.
“We cannot afford to be neutral on the issue of national unity, ’’ the minister said.
Mohammed assured that the government would work with the media in the interest of the country.
“For example, we are working on forging a partnership between the government and the media that will see military and intelligence chiefs interfacing with you to give you first hand information on the progress of the war against terrorism.
“We believe it is important to carry the media along, because if you are well informed about the war, you will be in a better position to inform Nigerians about it.
Mohammed said his ministry would ensure that the media got timely and accurate information from the government, saying ”if you run into any roadblock while seeking information from any government establishment, kindly notify us.”
He commended the media for effectively playing their watchdog role during the last elections that saw the opposition ousting the ruling party for the first time in the country.
“Whereas a few media establishments fell short during the last elections, jettisoning professionalism on the altar of political expediency, the media largely availed themselves creditably by maintaining their professional integrity”, he said.
[pro_ad_display_adzone id=”70560″]
The President of Radio, Television and Theatre Arts Workers Union of Nigeria (RATTAWU), Mr Yemisi Bamgbose, said there was need for the government to address media remuneration, particularly for those in the private sector.
He said that “the condition of workers is appalling.’’
Bamgbose urged the Federal Government to encourage the operators of its agencies to head the agencies.
The President of Nigeria Union of Journalists, Mr Abdulwaheed Odusile, expressed the union’s commitment to propagating national unity.
He urged the federal government to give the media access to information to avoid speculations and misrepresentations.
Odusile said the Federal Government should always give the media an insight to what was happening in the fight against insurgency for accurate reporting.
President of Nigeria Guild of Editors (NGE), Mr Garbadeen Muhammad, urged government to join the guild in its campaign to secure jobs for editors in both public and private media organisations.
Muhammad said President Muhammadu Buhari’s administration should pay more attention to local media by using them to break news instead of using foreign media.
Mrs Ifeyinwa Omowole, President of Nigerian Association of Women Journalists, urged government to engage women in the peace process in the country.
Omowole recommended radio as a medium to be used in preaching peace in the North East and other crisis prone areas.
According to her, save school initiative, campaign against drug abuse and cultism should be carried out in primary and secondary schools to save lives.
The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the Broadcasting Organisations of Nigeria was also present. (NAN)