Abuja – Joseph Bello has emerged the overall winner of the 2015 CBN Governor’s Cup Golf competition. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that about 150 golfers participated in the competition which took place at the IBB International Golf and Country Club, Abuja, between Nov. 28 and Nov. 29. Bello, whose handicap rose from 27 to 24 with his latest win, told newsmen that he would strive to retain the trophy in the next edition. “I didn’t expect this; my friends kept disturbing me that I should contest, so, I just wanted to come and play golf and have fun; I thank God that I won. “I have to work harder to retain this trophy next year and I commend the sponsors and the organisers for a job well-done,’’ he said. The competition also saw Obiora Osakwe winning the first prize for best CBN staff golfer, while Ben Passa won the best CBN Pensioners prize. Governor of the CBN, Godwin Emefiele, said the tournament was organised to create an atmosphere of relaxation and recreation among to encourage friendship and interaction. “For many years, the game of golf serves as antidote to stress; it is a fruitful exercise which enhances the mental and physiological well-being of participants.[pro_ad_display_adzone id=”70560″] “It is gratifying to know that the bank has over the years expressed its commitment to toward the promotion and development of other sports in Nigeria. “The CBN sponsors the annual All Financial Institutions Football Competition, the CBN Senior Open Tennis Championship and the CBN Junior Tennis Tournament, among others,’’ Emefiele said. Captain of the IBB Golf Club, Hamid Abbo, described the competition as “one of the big events in the Club’s golfing calendar,’’ noted that golfers always looked forward to it. Abbo commended the Governor of the CBN for ensuring that the competition held in spite the economic challenges, noting that the tournament had contributed to the development of amateur golfing in the country. Trophies and golf kit bags were some of the prizes won by the competitors in different categories which included veterans’ ladies nett, veterans’ men nett, men gross, as well as longest drive ladies and men. Others are; longest drive CBN staff, nearest the pin ladies, nearest the pin men and nearest the pin CBN staff. (NAN)