 “This is, at best, a fruitless and laughable venture; a wild goose chase,” Rivers APC said in a statement signed by its chairman, Dr. Davies Ikanya, and issued on Sunday in Port Harcourt. The party noted that Amaechi ran a transparent administration and made it a habit to render account of his stewardship to Rivers State people almost on a quarterly basis throughout his eight years in office as governor. “Only a mischievous and treacherous person like Wike would, therefore, start sniffing the ground in a bid to find out if Rt. Hon. Amaechi soiled his hands while carrying out his functions as the Governor of Rivers State,” Rivers APC said. The party said it was aware that Wike’s desperate efforts to bring down Amaechi and rubbish his good name despite all his feats as Rivers State governor were aimed at stopping President Muhammadu Buhari from appointing the former governor into his cabinet. According to the party, “One thing Chief Wike and his evil collaborators fail to understand is that President Buhari knows the politics of Rivers State as he knows his fingers. President Buhari is fully aware that Amaechi and his associates are being viciously persecuted by Wike because he engineered the ouster of Dr. Goodluck Jonathan as the President of Nigeria and the election of President Buhari. Apart from the above, Chief Wike is embarking upon this worthless vindictive venture knowing very well that he will soon be ignominiously sacked by the Election Petition Tribunal since he never won election but was imposed by Rivers INEC in collaboration with the then ruling Peoples Democratic Party.”.[pro_ad_display_adzone id=”70560″] Rivers APC said it was not perturbed by Wike’s antics but advised Justice Emereji and his co-panelists not to allow themselves to be used by Wike to cook up non-existent fraud cases against Amaechi. “Justice Emereji and co should not allow Wike to rubbish the good name they have spent decades to cultivate because it is Wike, who is fraud personified and who has the blood of hundreds of innocent Rivers citizens killed in his desperate bid to become governor, that deserves to be investigated,” the party said.