ABUJA (Sundiata Post) – The National Chairman of the All Progressive Congress (APC)‎, Chief John Odigie-Oyegun, has assured that though the expectations of Nigerians are very high, President Muhammadu Buhari would not let them down.
While admitting that all the problems of Nigeria cannot be solved in one day, he however, further assured that the party would be behind the President so that Nigerians would indeed begin to see that things are changing.
Oyegun said this while fielding questions from State House correspondents at Defence House, after leading a delegation of the National Working Committee of the APC on a solidarity visit to the President.
“We noted the fact that expectations are extremely ‎high and that the public expects a totally new dawn. On that score we told him we are with you; Mr. President you will succeed because the entire party will be galvanised as one man behind you, to ensure that days into this presidency that Nigerians will indeed see that things are changing. 
“All the problems cannot be solved in one day that you will flick to bring that kind of eventuality. But what Nigerians want is to be sure that we are getting it right and that we are on the proper path towards answering their long frustration towards amielorating their condition and that is what they will get”.
Oyegun, who said‎ the visit was to enable the party leadership pledge their loyalty and determination to work with the President through thick and thin, added that the party would remain a dependable platform that he used to become president of the country.
Asked about the President’s concerns having been on the saddle for six days, the APC National Chairman said, “We did have frank discussions and I think all that happened is that he was quiet appreciative ‎of our declaration of support. He briefed us on one or two issues and we are quiet pleased at the way things are going”. 
Asked how  long should Nigerians wait for the ministerial list, he said, “All I can say is that Mr. President is committed to carrying the party along in everything that he does and we are very grateful for that. He has always been like that, he has put the party in the front burner in all the things he does at all times and he has continued to do that”.
On the crisis of choosing leaders at the National Assembly and if it was not too early for the party to have crisis, Oyegun assured that there would be no crisis.
‎He said, “There will be no crisis. I want to give you that assurance. We are very conscious of the fact that the National Assembly is the separate arm of government and the constitution provides that they are the ones responsible for electing their own officers, all we have to do is provide for them a conducive environment of doing just that”.
On the security issues, Oyegun said, “Well he has spoken on security all through the campaign, the insurgents are trying to test his resolve and I have a feeling they will be in for surprises”.
On plans to  relocate the military ‎command to Maiduguri, the party chairman said, “There is nothing like lives, he was elected to protect Nigerian lives ‎and that is even his first priority”.