Abuja – Rangers International FC of Enugu has filed a protest against Lobi Stars of Makurdi, alleging that the club used an ineligible player in their 0-1 loss in the Federation Cup semi-final tie in Katsina. Paul Ozor, General Manager of Rangers told the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) on Thursday that the protest centered on the ineligibility of Barnabas Imenger Jr. who starred for Lobi player during the encounter. Ozor had questioned Imenger’s eligibility, saying that the player had previously featured for Kano Pillars in the first stanza of the ongoing Nigeria Professional Football League before joining Lobi last week for the second stanza. The Rangers GM pointed out that Imenger haven played for Pillars this season ought not to have qualified to play for another league club in the same competition. “We have already protested here in Katsina; we have also paid for the protest fee. Even the General Secretary of the Nigeria Football Federation (NFF), Mohammed Sanusi, witnessed all that happened in Katsina. “But we will protest more when we come to Abuja with the video clip of the match. I will even send the tape to TV stations for Nigerians to see the injustice that transpired in Katsina; our football may not grow if we continue like this,’’ Ozor said.
[pro_ad_display_adzone id=”70560″] He said that apart from the inclusion of Imenger in the match, two of Rangers players received red cards in the first half of the game, which reduced his players to nine men. “The two red cards in the first half were given to Christian Madu and Razak Adegbite and their goal was scored from an offside position, which came toward the end of the match. “Some of the fans at the stadium clapped for us but we were rewarded with a late offside goal,’’ he added. NAN reports that Lobi would now meet Akwa United FC of Uyo, in the final of the Federation Cup. This followed Akwa United’s 1-0 defeat to Nasarawa United in the other semifinal game played in Abeokuta, the Ogun capital. Udoh Aniekpeno, scored the lone goal for Akwa in the 26th minute. (NAN)