‎ABUJA (Sundiata Post) – President Goodluck Jonathan and and Gen. Theophilus Danjuma (rtd) on Wednesday met behind closed doors for about 10 minutes. Danjuma, who was one time the Minister of Defence, said he was in the Presidential Villa to visit the President and ask how things were in the country as he has been outside the country. Danjuma, who was dressed in cream ‘babanriga’ with a matching cap was received by the President at the entrance of his official residence, also dressed in light brown ‘babanriga’‎, with a matching cap at about at 9.30am.
[pro_ad_display_adzone id=”10″] Both men held hands and walked into his residence for a closed door meeting which did not last for more than 10 minutes. When asked what he discussed with the president when both of them emerged at 9.42am, he replied it was “confidential”. Continuing he said, “Don’t speculate. I came to visit the President and find out how things are going. I have been abroad. I just came back”. Asked if he was going to canvass support for the president ahead of the presidential elections, he replied “I don’t canvass. I am not in any of the political parties. The president is the president of the country”. Danjuma, who is also the Chairman of the Victims Support Fund, a fund meant to rehabilitate those affected by the Boko Haram insurgency in the north east, had earlier in the year ‎called for the arrest of Asari Dokubo and Government Ekpemudo (alias Tompolo) for threatening that there would be war if Jonathan was not re-elected. Both ex-militants ‎had through a group, Leadership, Peace and Cultural Development Initiative, said Danjuma was courting trouble by calling for their arrest. The group had while giving Danjuma a week to apologise to both ex-militants, urged him to bear in mind ‎that the money he was enjoying today was from the oil blocks from the Niger Delta region which came about from their sacrifices and blood. They had said, “as much ‎as he has the right to free speech, Danjuma ought to know that the oil money he is enjoying today, through his ownership of oil blocks, came from our sacrifices and blood. We staked our life to fight for the development of our country. We fought for freedom for our land and it pains us that people like Danjuma who have reaped bountifully from the Niger Delta, can wake up to insult our sensibilities. “For Danjuma to call for the arrest of ‎Asari Dokubo, then he has walked on the tail of the serpent. The much we know is that we the ex-militants who decided to drop our guns to join forces with the federal government to develop the country, especially the Niger Delta have never said anything or taken any action that would warrant such explosive from Danjuma”.