The Deputy Chairman, Finance Committee of the PDP Presidential Campaign Organisation, Dr. Ngozi Olejeme on Saturday reflected on the acts of courage and determination made by women in the fight for equality so far, praising President Goodluck Jonathan for elevating women in the country. “We have witnessed a transformation in women’s participation in public life. More women are exercising leadership in politics and business, more girls are going to school”, she said. In her message for International Women’s Day 2015, Olejeme urged women to make an informed decision when choosing the next president of the country. “Nigeria is moving in the right direction. Women have received reasonable positions in government at the federal level. President Jonathan is promoting girl education in remote villages. We have the environment conducive to business investments and trade. We have policies that are expanding the economy. There is the rule of law in this country. The Jonathan led People’s Democratic Party government is committed to fiscal prudence,” she said. Olejeme advised Nigerian men to move beyond rhetoric and take action to improve the quality of life of women by removing the many obstacles that impede full and equal participation by women at so many levels. “Women must exercise their choices; they must participate in politics, have income, and live in societies free from violence and discrimination. Women must have access to education and play a full role in the communities’ decision-making processes”, she said. Olejeme, who is also the chairman of Nigeria Social Insurance Trust Fund (NSITF), urged women to redouble their efforts to achieve gender equality. [pro_ad_display_adzone id=”10″] She stressed the need for Nigerian women to be guided by a three- word motto: Together We Build. “We must keep our eyes on the long -range prize for self and country. We must take an active part in the coming elections and structures that will emerge from these elections”. On what she knows would take Nigeria forward this month, Olejeme advised Nigerian women to vote for Dr. Goodluck Jonathan. “A vote for PDP is a vote for progressive policies, high management capacity and vision for serious challenges besetting Nigeria. It is also a vote for inspiring health facilities, high quality education and better future” she added.