The Deputy Governor of Rivers State, Tele Ikuru, has given reasons for dumping the All Progressives Congress to join the Peoples Democratic Party, saying the APC is of rebels, insurgents and anarchists.
Sundiata Post had earlier reported the news of Mr. Ikulu’s decision to return to the PDP in a move that is considered a betrayal of his boss and friend, Governor Rotimi Amaechi.
Mr. Ikuru, who was one of Governor Amaechi’s major ally, is said to have announced his defection in Port Harcourt, the state capital on Sunday.
The decampee was first elected deputy governor to Celestine Omehia in 2007, before the duo was removed by the Supreme Court less than six months in office. When Mr. Amaechi was sworn in as governor, he retained Mr. Ikuru as his deputy and the duo fought against the interests and allies of the former governor of the state, Peter Odili.
At the time Mr. Amaechi fell out with the leadership of the PDP and defected to the APC with majority of his aides, Mr. Ikuru remained loyal to the governor and fought on the same side.
But in his formal defection statement titled, “A call on the Conscience of the People of Rivers State,” Mr. Ikulu said he is compeled to address the people out of the fullness of heart.
Recalling events in December 2013, he said he, alongside other disillusioned people of the state, joined the APC out of extreme loyalty to his friend and boss, Mr. Amaechi.
“Ever since, as the true nature and motives of APC are unveiled, I have continued to twist and turn in extreme mental and emotional agony. The more I struggle to belong, the more the Rivers man in me rejects the APC,” Mr. Ikuru said.
“After carefully studying, interacting and analyzing the leadership of the party, I have come to the sad conclusion that the APC is a party of rebels, insurgents and anarchists, clothed in robes of pretense and deceit. APC is a party founded on deception and it thrives on unholy propaganda and falsehood.”
Based on these, Mr. Ikuru said he and his supporters have decided to denounce the APC and have jointly and severally resigned their membership of the party.
“My dear people of Rivers State,” the deputy governor continued,  “we of this generation will not in good conscience expect forgiveness and compassion from our forebears, posterity, and the spirit of our unborn generations if it is recorded in the annals of history that after 48 years of Rivers people supporting leaders from all other parts of this country with our votes and resources, we were the same that witch hunted and hounded down the very first ever President from this region, granted us by providence. I wash my hands off this treachery.”
He, therefore, urged his supporters and the people of the state to vote for President Goodluck Jonathan and the PDP gubernatorial candidate in the state, Nyesom Wike.
But in a swift response, Mr. Amaechi said he only received news of his deputy’s resignation from the APC on Sunday evening.
Mr. Amaechi, who spoke through the state Commissioner for Information and Communications, Ibim Semenitari, said Mr. Ikuru’s resignation remains unofficial since he is yet to notify his principal of the move. [pro_ad_display_adzone id=”10″]
While wishing his estranged deputy all the best in his future political endeavour, Mr. amaechi noted that the reasons adduced by Mr. Ikuru for dumping the APC are shocking.
“Deputy Governor lkuru has consistently been the one driving political activities in his local government area of Andoni,” Mr. Amaechi said.
“He has also been the second in command driving politics and governance in Rivers State.
On a personal note, Governor Amaechi has accorded Engr Ikuru all the privileges and respect due the office of the deputy governor and has treated him with love as a friend and brother.
“Though the governor had hoped that the numerous rumours of Engr Ikuru’s double-faced membership of the APC and open romance with the PDP were not true, he however appreciates the fact that every individual has a right to pursue his political dreams, as he deems most appropriate.”
Mr. Amaechi said it is regrettable that Mr. Ikuru has chosen the dishonourable path of bare faced lies and name-calling rather than the more honourable path of simply retracing his steps to where he has always been. (Premium Times)