 The National Assembly has issued a seven-day ultimatum to the Nigeria Football Federation (NFF) to give a detailed account of how funds realised from other sources – besides the Federal Government – were spent in 2014. The NFF Board and management staff, led by Vice President Seyi Akinwunmi and General Secretary Musa Amadu  were at the National Assembly on Tuesday, where they faced the House Committee on Sports for their 2015 Budget. Committee chairman Godfrey Ali Gaiya, while rejecting the 2014 budget appraisal submitted by the federation observed that the NFF only touched on budgetary allocation it received from the Federal Government without mentioning how much it received from FIFA after the World Cup and sponsorships, among other external grants. Gaiya said: “I am happy that Musa Amadu is here and he is in a position to know that all the funds from FIFA and CAF ought to be part of what is submitted to Parliament. Going by what you have presented in this document, one can see that you have just presented expenditure profile of funds you received from the Federal Government, but it goes beyond that. We are giving you seven days to come up with details of such grants and funds, including dollar components which you received from your affiliates and sponsors. “It is within the constitution, captured by the Section 80 of 1999 constitution, that even if a gift is given to any government agency, such an amount must be appropriated and accounted for. I am saying this because I am in touch with sports and I know that NFF gets resources from other sources outside government and I know our football is a big brand that has sponsors, like GLO, except you tell this committee they have withdrawn from such sponsorship.
[pro_ad_display_adzone id=”10″] He continued “I know you are affiliated to CAF and I know that CAF and FIFA as your father and your mother give you certain amounts of money. I want to wonder, if in 2014, no such money was collected. You have to explain to us because the documents before us didn’t capture all of that.” The Director General of the National Sports Commission, Honourable Gbenga Elegbeleye, who also led other management staff of the NSC to appear before the House, was cleared and took a bow.