ABUJA (Sundiata Post) – The PDP Presidential Campaign Organisation has accused General Muhammadu Buhari of succumbing to a proposition by some western nations to repeal Nigeria’s anti-gay laws and legalise same-sex marriage should he win the March 28 presidential election.
Addressing a press conference in Abuja on Wednesday, Chief Femi Fani-Kayode, director, media and publicity of the organisation, Buhari had during his visit to the United Kingdom, appealed to western nations for support and endorsement to enable him win the election.
Fani-Kayode said a “shameful proposition . . . was made to General Muhammadu Buhari by the representatives of a number of western governments when he was in the United Kingdom for a prolonged stay. He had appealed to them for support and to get their endorsement.  He had talks with the representatives of at least four western countries.  The leaders of those countries made an offer to General Muhammadu Buhari and we are reliably informed that he has put the offer under consideration.

“The proposition and offer was that if he was prepared to support legislation in Nigeria to allow same sex marriage and if he was prepared to repeal the anti-gay laws in Nigeria they will, in return, endorse, support and fund him, initially covertly and eventually publicly, at the right time. “Instead of outrightly rejecting these offers and spurning this proposition, to our utter shock and consternation, General Buhari apparently refused to rule it out and has put the matter under consideration. Instead of him to say NO he assured them that he would consider these two things.  We believe that this is a matter that ought to be brought to the attention of the Nigerian people as a matter of urgency.  The APC are so desperate to ensuring that General Buhari becomes the President of this country that they are actually prepared to consider the scrapping of all anti-gay or anti-homosexual legislations and at the same time, endorsing and supporting fresh legislation that would allow same sex marriage in our country.  They are considering this despite the fact that the overwhelming majority of the Nigerian people find same sex marriage and, indeed, homosexuality repugnant and unacceptable. “We are using this occasion to challenge General Buhari to come clean and to tell the Nigerian people whether this is true and whether, in the unlikely event of his being elected President, he is seriously considering scrapping the anti-homosexual laws in our country and pushing through new legislation which would allow same sex marriage.”