ABUJA – The Chief of Defence Staff (CDS), Air Chief Marshal Alex Badeh, said ‘never again’ would the military allow any territory of Nigeria to be occupied by terrorists. Badeh said this when a civil society group, “Nigeria in Safe Hands Group” carried a solidarity rally to the Defence Headquarters, Abuja, on Thursday in Support of the Armed Forces. The CDS was represented by the Chief of Policy and Plans at the Defence Headquarters , AVM Umar Omeiza. “The troops are saying: never again; never again; never again. “We are not going to allow terrorists to occupy any part of the country. Boko Haram is a common enemy for all of us.  “We want to tell you that we are very glad to have you here; we are very happy that some people are appreciating the Nigerian military efforts in the fight against terrorists.  “And it is not the march that matters but that somebody is supporting and appreciating you, will make you to match forward.  “And we don’t have any nation to call ours except this one and if the military fails all of you have failed,” the CDS said.  Badeh also said that the war against the enemy, “Boko Haram’’, was not only for the military, adding that the military was only representing Nigerians.  He urged Nigerians to continue to support the military in the fight against the terrorists.  Earlier, the National Coordinator of the group, Mr  Godwin Malaiga, said they were happy  that territories occupied by “Boko Haram“ had been recaptured by our military.  Malaiga said they were at the Defence Headquarters to thank the Nigerian military for the success they had been recording in the fight against the insurgents.  “We believe that before the general elections all the territories will be recaptured fully.  “We believe in the military, we will continue to thank them.  “We also want to use this opportunity to thank President Goodluck Jonathan for his efforts so far in the fight against the terrorists,” he said.  Malaiga urged the National Assembly to always ensure that the budget of the military was passed on time to avoid delay in operations. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that Over 500 youths participated in the rally. 