LAGOS – The Oba of Lagos, Oba Railwan Akiolu, on Thursday said that President Goodluck Jonathan should not be blamed for the problems of Nigeria.
[pro_ad_display_adzone id=”8″]
Akiolu said this while receiving Jonathan at his palace in Lagos.[pro_ad_display_adzone id=”10″]
[pro_ad_display_adzone id=”10″]
He said that many of the problems in the country predated the Jonathan administration.
The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the President was in Lagos State for the flag-off of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP’s) presidential campaign at the Tafawa Balewa Square.
He was in the Oba’s palace to pay homage to him and seek his blessings before going to the campaign venue.[pro_ad_display_adzone id=”10″]
Akiolu said that fighting corruption was the responsibility of every Nigerian.
“What will be, will be; God Almighty will give the best person the opportunity to lead this country.
“Mr President, God knows the best; I am happy; what I want are free and fair elections.
“I am happy that Mr President directed INEC to ensure that voters’ cards are distributed to every eligible member of the electorate,’’ he said.
He urged INEC to ensure distribution of voters’ cards, saying that Lagos had more than six million eligible voters.
The royal father urged that security agents should not be unfairly used against any citizen during the general elections.
According to him, both the PDP governorship candidate, Mr Jimi Agbaje, and his APC counterpart, Mr Akinwunmi Ambode, are his children.
He said that he had presented Ambode’s candidature for God’s blessing at the 2014 Hajj in Saudi Arabia but noted that God would always have the final say.
The Oba expressed confidence that Nigeria would be more united after the elections.
Akiolu accused former President Olusegun Obasanjo of not treating Lagos well during his administration and leaving many problems unsolved in the country.
Earlier, Jonathan said that he came to the palace to pay homage to the royal father and sought his prayers and support for his ambition.
The president said that the Nigerian government under the PDP had done much for the country, contrary to claims by the opposition.
He said that his administration did not believe in blowing its trumpet but determined to meet the expectations of the citizenry.
Jonathan said that his administration had revived rail transport system, improved road network, created jobs and implemented policies aimed at economic advancement, among other achievements.
Earlier, the National Chairman of the PDP, Alhaji Adamu Mu’azu, sought the support of the royal father for both the state and presidential candidates of the party. (NAN)