KATSINA (SundiataPost) – Security forces on Tuesday averted what was potentially an ugly situation as hundreds of loyalists of All Progressive Congress (APC) presidential candidate, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd) attacked the motorcade of President Goodluck Jonathan in Katsina. A combined unit of soldiers and anti-riot policemen dispersed the supporters chanting “Sai Buhari” as they surged forward with intent to attack the President and his delegation as they visited the house of Hajia Dada, the mother of the late President Umaru Musa Yar’Adua in her residence at Yar’Adua Quarters in the state capital. There was palpable tension as the president’s convoy drove past the area with hundreds of Buhari supporters brandishing brooms, the APC’S symbol and welcoming the president with chants of “sai Buhari” while some could be heard calling Jonathan “arna,” an unbeliever. The president was about to emerge from the residence of Hajia Dada, when the crowd suddenly started towards his convoy but the timely intervention of the security forces who fired canisters of tear gas, provided cover for the convoy to speed away. As the convoy sped towards the Katsina Airport, the crowd rained down stones on it but nobody was hurt in the motorcade. With the president were Vice President Namadi Sambo; the National Chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Dr. Adamu Muazu; Governor Ibrahim Shema of Katsina State, ministers, other top members of the PDP leadership, among others. As the President’s aircraft took off for Abuja, members of his advance party staying behind were advised to hide their identity in order to prevent them from being attacked by the mob. Yar’Adua family members are now accusing the APC leadership in the state of organising their supporters in an attempt to embarrass the president, pointing fingers to a particular APC chieftain (name withheld) resident around the area, as the brain behind the incident. According to one of them who spoke with a reporter in Katsina, a top official of the APC was seen earlier in the day conferring with the resident APC chieftain apparently to advance the cause of disrupting Jonathan’s visit. Jonathan had taken his campaign to Katsina State, telling the people that he would not have been president but for the goodwill of the people of the state. Addressing crowd of supporters earlier at the National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) Orientation Camp in the state capital, he recalled how he was chosen by late former President Umaru Musa Yar’Adua to be his vice president in 2007. Jonathan therefore assured them that as president, he would do anything required by Katsina people even before they asked. “But for you I would not have been here today. It was your own son that brought me as his vice. Anything that you want from me, we will do it without you asking for it,” he said. Jonathan noted that his administration provided Katsina State a federal university because it was not impressed that as a cradle of western education, the state was not served by a federal university. [pro_ad_display_adzone id=”8″] The president said his administration has also established 38 almajiri schools in the state with about 18,000 pupils. He informed the crowd that Katsina State had produced the first female pilot among those currently being trained under the Petroleum Development Trust Fund (PTDF). The President noted that his administration has associated more with farmers more than any other in the country’s history helping On insecurity in the North, he observed that it was a problem facing other countries of the world, adding that his administration had been able to deal with the situation so far because of its focus. He said: “We have challenges like many other countries in the world but we are still managing because of our focus. We will get through our challenges because we are working hard and you know it.” Jonathan asked them to vote for him and Vice Namadi Sambo to enable them to continue to work for the peace and progress of the state. Vice President Namadi Sambo in his remarks, stressed that the Jonathan administration has given adequate attention to Muslims in his administration in spite of being a Christian. Naming several several Muslims occupying important positions in the administration,  he advised Nigerians to ignore campaign seeking to present the Jonathan government as against Muslim or against the North. He called on the people to vote for Jonathan and the PDP. Also speaking at the rally, Governor Ibrahim Shema of Katsina State, called on PDP supporters to remain steadfast and not be intimidated by any individual or groups for political reasons. He told the crowd that President Jonathan had done well for the state by providing a federal university, building almajiri schools, fighting desertification, youth unemployment among others in the state and the country in general. He also pointed out that Jonathan had recently approved a reduction in the pump price of petroleum, saying that his administration had continued to promote the interest of all Nigerians. Noting that the insecurity challenge in parts of the country was a worldwide phenomenon, he said Jonathan needed to be re-elected to continue with his effort to restore peace in the North. He said: “The concerns in northern Nigeria are not limited to Nigeria. Your effort will continue. We pray that God will strengthen you top continue in that direction. You will come back as president and peace will return to thje north. Don’t be deterred.” Shema, who said he was impressed with the strides recorded by the Jonathan’s administration, also pointed out that the president was a man of peace who he said had the guidance of God. “You are a man of peace, not a violent man. You have stressed the importance of peace. We believe you have the guidance of God,” he stated. He advised PDP members to ensure that they vote for Jonathan and all PDP candidates in the coming election as he observed that the ruling party being the biggest party in the country would continue to leave by example. He added: “Nigerians should not be intimidated for political ambitions. We must not use what divides us to campaign. PDP members in the country must vote for PDP. We must not run away for it. “Our commitment to PDP is to total, no shaking, no going back. We will continue with peace, no intimidation. PDP is the party of all parties in Nigeria.” [pro_ad_display_adzone id=”10″] Earlier while on a courtesy call on the Emir of Katsina, Alhaji Abdulmumuni Kabir Usman in his palace, President Jonathan recalled that his political odyssey at the centre started in Katsina when he became vice president to late President Umaru Yar’Adua and reassured that he would continue to work with Katsina people to develop the country. Jonathan spoke of the importance of education in Katsina where many of the foremost northern leaders had their early education, saying that it was with that in mind that his administration established a federal university in the state. The royal father in his remarks admonished politicians to consider the interest of the masses and ensure that peace prevailed in the country, noting that only God gives power to whoever he chooses. He spoke against the use of religion or ethnicity to divide the country while urging politicians to convince voters through persuasion. Usman observed that Katsina State has been peaceful and prosperous under the present dispensation and beyond and urged others states to emulate it.