The All Progressives Congress Presidential Campaign Organisation (APCPCO) says it has uncovered a plot by the PDP and the President Jonathan-led government to scuttle the 2015 general elections.[pro_ad_display_adzone id=”10″] A statement by APCPCO on Thursday disclosed that the campaign has it on good authority that the kernel of the plan is to use the subterfuge of the frivolous litigation by some people to get a court pronouncement (from one of the Presidency’s pliable Judges) to the effect that General Muhammadu Buhari – the APC presidential candidate – lied under oath in saying that the military had his certificate, whereas, the military had denied being in possession of the certificate. According to a statement signed by Director of Media and Publicity of the campaign, Mallam Garba Shehu, the counter arguments by the APC’s candidate’s counsel would not matter because the particular Federal High Judge has been prepared to do a dirty hatchet job. The APC revealed it is their calculation that this wicked pronouncement of disqualification of the APC candidate shall precipitate spontaneous violent protests across the country. Shehu said this scenario shall then make President Goodluck Jonathan, the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) candidate in the 2015 general election, to declare a six-month state of emergency across the land. He disclosed that the three-week long strike action by the Judiciary Staff Union of Nigeria (JUSUN) was embarked upon on the prodding of the PDP-led Federal government as a way to stymie any higher Court upturning of the lower Court pronouncement which ruled on President Jonathan’s eligibility to contest the February 14 election. Similarly, the APC Campaign said the same trade Union has been procured to open the Court to allow for this Court Pronouncement in disqualifying General Buhari from contesting the election. “We are aware of the intense desperation of the PDP-led Federal government of Dr. Goodluck Jonathan in desiring to retain political power at all costs despite his and his party’s overwhelming rejection by the Nigerian people, ahead of the 2015 general election. “We have brought this wicked plot of the PDP-led government to the attention of Nigerians, from whom any government derives its legitimacy. Nigeria cannot be thrown into chaos because of the selfish and callous desire of a tiny cabal to goad the Nigerian people into its destructive path. The governance of the Nigerian people by any person or group of persons must have the assent of the Nigerian people,” Shehu said. The APC Campaign called on the international community to prevail on this obviously agitated presidency not to plunge the Nigerian State into avoidable intractable crisis.