Lagos – Mr Femi Gbajabiamila, House Leader of the House of Representatives, on Wednesday said that the 8th Assembly in its six months of existence had sponsored a total of 327 bills as against 132 presented within the first six months of the 7th Assembly. Gbajabiamila said this in Lagos, at an end of the year media briefing on activities of the 8th House of Representatives from June 9 to Dec. 22. He said that 264 Bills out of the 327 had passed through first reading and awaiting second reading while a total of 40 Bills had been referred to committees. According to him, inspite of a bumpy start in June when the house was inaugurated, the House has been able to step up to the plate and has busied itself in working for the progress of Nigeria. “In keeping with the resolve of the President to address the issues of insecurity, unemployment and corruption amongst others, we developed a legislative agenda that will guide the House in achieving its set objectives. [pro_ad_display_adzone id=”70560”]
“The Bills and Motions sponsored and passed so far are clear demonstrations of the House’s resolve to make laws and embark on legislative activities for the good governance of Nigeria. “Bills have been presented and resolutions passed to address the issues of insecurity, unemployment, economic reform, reform in the oil and gas sector of the economy etc. “We are not there yet but we intend as a House to vigorously align with the hopes and aspirations of the Nigerian masses,” he said. Gbajabiamila said that the 8th Assembly, in its six months of existence, investigated many issues that affect the development of the health, education, power and energy sectors. He said that they also investigated and deliberated on welfare of IDPs and victims of terrorism, good governance and anti corruption, transportation, security and came up with resolutions. Gbajabiamila said that the house intended to pursue the passage of the Petroleum Industry Bill in the coming year and present further amendment to the constitution. He said the amendment was to provide a more perfect document that would guide the nation. “As a House, we have, through the instrumentality of the law, extended the 2015 capital budget to March 2016 in conformity with our constitution which prescribes a 12- month budget span, thereby ensuring the continuation of the infrastructural development envisaged in the 2015 budget. “On the 2016 budget, we will look at the proposals and the document with a fine tooth comb, dot the ‘Is’ and cross the ‘Ts’ where and if necessary,” he said. Gbajabiamila said the 8th Assembly would appreciate continued support and understanding of Nigerians. (NAN)