Abuja – The Minister of Information and Culture, Alhaji Lai Mohammed, on Friday urged information managers in public and private media to design information strategies aimed at sensitising Nigerians against insurgency.
Mohammed made the call in Abuja during meeting with heads of media parastatals under the ministry, public relations officers of security agencies and National Union Road Transport Workers.
He said “the meeting will basically allow us to put our heads together to design a public awareness campaign to sensitise Nigerians on their role in the ongoing fight against insurgency.
“In order to keep Nigerians fully informed and involved, it is important that we design a communication strategy that will be very effective in helping us to achieve that objective.
“ Therefore, let us put on our thinking caps and come up with worldwide strategic communication package that will facilitate the achievement of our objectives.’’
The minister said the campaign would ensure that Nigerians supported the war and also own it.
“In other words, they will be aware that the war is not just for the military but for all Nigerians.
“As you are aware last Saturday, I took 33 journalists on a tour to the liberated areas in Borno State as part of our efforts to get the real facts about the fight and convey such to Nigerians and the entire world.
“ Shortly on arrival in Maiduguri, I was briefed by the Chief of Defence Staff, Gen. Gabriel Olonisakin, part of what he said was that the military is doing its best and winning the war but the civilian component is missing.’’
According to him, this tallies with what we have always known that Nigerians have not been sensitized enough to understand that the war is for the very survival of our country and must be owned and supported and driven by all of us.
“ The military may be doing its best but it cannot win the war alone. No insurgency has ever been won only by military power.
“Apart from that, it is important to sensitise Nigerians on Improvised Explosive Devices (IEP), how to recognize one and what to do if they find such.
The minister said Nigerians needed to know the new tactics of the insurgents which aimed at focusing on soft targets like motor parks, entertainment centres, religious houses, etc, having failed from their struggle in the north-east.
[pro_ad_display_adzone id=”70560″]
According to him, “terrorists have resorted to carrying out cowardly attacks, but these people operate among us.
“The challenge, therefore, is to fish them out before they strike. How do we recognise them? How do we keep Nigeria safe whether at the motor parks, schools, hospitals, and hotels or even on the roads?
“ It is also important to us to cast our net wide and involve as many stakeholders as possible in the security campaign we are planning.
Mohammed stressed the need for religious leaders to preach against violence and hatred in the mosques and churches. (NAN)