Otukpo (Benue) – A former Senate President David Mark, has urged youths in the country to take to sports and the entertainment industry as means of promoting peace and unity across the country. Mark who said this at the opening of the 2015 Mark d’ Ball Basketball Competition in Otukpo, Benue, said athletes as well as those in the entertainment industry had done so well to unite the country. According to Mark, Nigerians abandon tribalism and ethnicity whenever the country is taking part in international competitions. This, he said, was also being exhibited in the entertainment industry, where artists and comedians from different parts of the country crack jokes as a means providing entertainment to earn a liviving. He said the country and the teeming population would be able to surmount security and economic challenges, if the youths could engage in at least one sport or another. “I urge young people to take part in at least one sport and the sky will be their limit. “Jamaica is a small country but they rule the world in athletics; we in Idoma land can produce the world champions in so many sporting activity. “I will also encourage emulate the likes of popular comedians like `Clint the drunk’, singer Tecno and others who are making waves in the entertainment industry. “These people have made impact in the society; so, I urge you to build that talent which can see you become national and international figure. “I want to see our young ones do something productive in the society in order to build the Nigeria of our dream,’’ Mark said. The former senate president assured the people of Otukpo of his commitment toward building an indoor sports hall in the area as part of efforts to develop sports at the grassroots. He noted that it was regrettable that approval had yet to be received for the construction of the indoor sports hall to enable construction work to commence. “Last year, I promised that the next edition of Mark d’ ball will be staged in an indoor hall. “I have applied for this place (the Otukpo Sports Club) to be given to us officially so that we can site an indoor court for bastekball. “The approval has yet to be received and that is why we are still having holding this event in an open court; as soon as the approval comes, we will do that,’’ he said. Abba Moro, a former Minister of Internal Affairs urged the youths to concentrate on things that unite the country rather than things that divide it.
[pro_ad_display_adzone id=”70560″] According to Moro, Mark d’ ball basketball competition has become a uniting factor in the country because it attracts participants from the 36 states of the country. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that some prominent entertainers, including high life musician Bongos Ikwue, Fryo, Tecno and Cynthia Morgan performed at the occasion. Comedians, including Samson and son, Clint the drunk, Fred Bright and Pastor Nicodemus thrilled the audience with their jokes. Eight male and eight female teams from different parts of the country are participating in this year’s Mark d’ ball basketball competition, which would run from Dec. 26 to Dec. 31. (NAN)