Abuja- Residents of Abuja on Saturday turned-out impressively to celebrate St. Valentine’s Day. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that most families took time out to visit entertainment and leisure centres in Abuja. A NAN correspondent who went round the town reports that the Silverbird Entertainment Centre, Millennium Park, Wonderland Leisure Park witnessed a large turnout of fun-seekers. At Silverbird Entertainment Centre, families spent about N1, 500 to watch movies at various showrooms, while the VIP section cost N2, 000. Chijioke Nwachukwu, a banker who was at the Silverbird Entertainment Centre with his family said the situation in the country did not stop them from celebrating. “The cost of living this year is beyond imagination; I believe the 2015 election might be the reason for this but one must adapt to the situation.
“We are here to keep ourselves busy and enjoy the fun and I hope next year will be better,’’ Nwachukwu said. At the Millennium Centre, security men positioned themselves at strategic locations, while fun- seekers got entry into the arena free. [pro_ad_display_adzone id=”10″] A fun-seeker, Mr Philip Atoe, told NAN that he was there with relatives to enjoy the day. According to him, the security of the environment gave him and other families’ confidence to relax and enjoy the day. “I commend the authorities in the FCT for providing adequate security for people here; I will still come out tomorrow because what I saw today is encouraging,’’ he said. The Wonder Land was not left out in the attraction created by fun-seekers as some family members paid N300 to gain entrance into the premises. Individuals spent between N200 and N500 to enjoy the swing and rollercoaster in the arena. Mrs Margret Itodo, who spoke to NAN said Valentine was a time to take her children out for enjoyment. She noted that the children had been telling her about visiting the place even before the Valentine’s Day. “I am happy spending this money because this is one of the periods you can give children and your loved ones a treat,’’ she said. Eateries like Mr Biggs, Lounge, all in Wuse 2, Abuja, also witnessed influx of people. The Lounge Manager, Joe Shittu, said they had already surpassed what they made in ordinary days within six hours. “Business is good today and we expect the same turn-out tomorrow,’’ he said.(NAN)