The ruling Peoples’ Democratic Party (PDP) has said that the membership card of former president, Chief Olusegun Obasanjo had expired even before he tore it publicly last Monday. It would be recalled that former President Olusegun Obasanjo tore his Peoples Democratic Party membership card a week ago.  However, the PDP on Tuesday stated the card hitherto owned by Obasanjo was signed by the party’s former Acting National Chairman, Alhaji Kawu Baraje. Baraje had since left the ruling party and pitched tent with the main opposition party, the All Progressives Congress (APC). While declaring his leaving the party, Obasanjo had asked the Chairman of the PDP in his Ward at Abeokuta, Mr. Usman Oladunjoye to tear his membership card. [pro_ad_display_adzone id=”10″] Commenting on Obasanjo’s action, who was a former Chairman of the Board of Trustees of the party, it’s National Secretary of the party, Dr. Wale Oladipo, said the card had been changed. Oladipo spoke during a courtesy call on him by some students, who claimed to be working for the re-election of President Goodluck Jonathan. He said himself and the National Chairman of the party, Alhaji Adamu Mu’azu signed the current cards being used by the party members. He said, “Baba (Obasanjo) is over 80 years and my mother is around Obasanjo’s age and when you reach that age, you do things that only you can explain. “Secondly, you will see that Baba did not tear our card. He asked somebody ostensibly to do the tearing and I am assuring you that the card that was torn was not the current PDP card. “The current PDP card is signed by Mu’azu and Oladipo. So the card he tore was a Baraje card, which we were going to destroy anyway. So I think Baba started it.” He added that Obasanjo might have left the party in order for it to have more followers. Oladipo said, “Lastly Baba is a very intelligent man. When Baba was helping us, he knows that a lot of people could have complained that they could have voted for PDP but Baba is there. “You know when a big tree exits in a big forest, smaller trees cannot grow. If that big tree leaves, 10 to 20 smaller trees will grow. “In politics one big tree has a vote, while twenty small trees have 20 votes. If you do the arithmetic, I am a scientist, I know that head or tail, it is a win-win situation for PDP.” The party also vowed to shock the APC in the South-West, where it said it would spring surprise. Deputy National Chairman of the party, Prince Uche Secondus, stated this while speaking with journalists in Abuja on Tuesday. He said with the support which he said was coming for the party and the President from the zone especially and other five zones across the country, there was no way the party would not win the presidential election. Secondus said this was where the confidence was coming from for the party and the President. He said “Look at our pedigree. A party that was formed less than one year ago can’t win elections with media vibes. Elections are won at polling units and we have the pedigree and statistics that has shown from 1999 till date that we have been consistent.