LAGOS – Some celebrities are expected to feature at the Nigerian Entertainment Conference, which will provide a plateform for individuals and companies to point the way forward for the industry. Some of the celebrities who will be among the speakers and facilitators at the conference taking place in Lagos on April 22, include Joke Silva, Mo Abudu, M.I. Davido and Jason Njoku. Mr Adekunle Ayeni, the publisher of an entertainment Newspaper, Nigerian Entertainment Today (NET), the organisers of the conference, told a newsmen in Lagos that this year’s conference would go beyond rhetorics. “We’re moving the conversation beyond rhetoric this year, and actually providing a platform for individuals and companies doing great stuff to come and show the world what we are about,’’ Ayeni said. He said that the conference would entail a full day of deliberations, workshops, exhibitions and master-classes on the entertainment business in the country. “This year’s sessions will be more about what practitioners have done in the past years, using case studies to deliver presentations everyone can learn from. [pro_ad_display_adzone id=”10″] “All sessions and exhibits will also be accompanied by master-classes by the visionaries plotting the future of the industry.’’ he said. Ayeni said that the event would hold at the Eko Hotel and Suites, Victoria Island, where the last two editions were held with the theme, “Buying and Selling Nigerian Entertainment and Everything in-between’’. Other resource persons expected to deliver lectures are Afrinolly’sChike Maduegbuna; IT entrepreneur Chika Nwobi; music distributor Uba Pacific; media administrator Deji Awokoya; marketer George Thorpe; comedian AY; founder of NotJustOk, DemolaOgundele and Quilox Chairman Shina Peller. Session moderators include Bukky Sawyerr-Izeogu, Zainab Balogun, Osagie Alonge, Oreka Godis, Dayo Odulaja, Olamide Adedeji, Ehiz Okoeguale while the event will be hosted by comedian, Tee A. Past editions of the conference had featured celebrities like 2face Idibia, Omotola Jalade-Ekeinde, late Amaka Igwe, Kenny Ogungbe, Jimmy JATT, Basketmouth, Don Jazzy, Kunle Afolayan, NseIkpe-Etim, Lagbaja, Tony Okoroji, AuduMaikori, D’banj and Ali Baba. (NAN) 