ABUJA – Mr David Paradang, the Comptroller General, Nigeria Immigration Service (NIS), on Friday canvassed for the re-election of President Goodluck Jonathan.
Paradang campaigned for Jonathan when he received the Africa Youth Patriotic and Development Mission (AYPDM) in Abuja.
The group is seeking to promote national development and progress.
He urged the mission to support Jonathan to reposition the country, adding that the transformation agenda of the president should be supported by the Nigerian youth.
He said: “We should support the government wholeheartedly to consolidate on the transformation agenda of President Goodluck Jonathan.
“If you encourage the president, he will do more for the Nigerian youths, but if you pull him down, the man will relax, you need to support him.”
He said that Jonathan had been supporting the NIS to carry out its statutory responsibility, adding that anything to build the country requires the support of the youth.
Paradang said that the NIS was ready to partner with AYPDM, within the law of the public service in order to grow the country by patrolling the borders to grow the economy.
He urged the youths to shun violence and eschew corruption, adding that no nation could thrive where corruption was entrenched.
Mr Kamal Adefila, the Executive Director, AYPDM, lauded the NIS for repositioning the service, adding that with the giant stride, AYPDM would confer on him the ground patron of the group.
Adefila said that the group was ready to partner with NIS to enhance the transformation agenda of Jonathan, adding that the president had performed well.
“The president has shown Nigerians that the minority can govern the country well.’’
He commended the NIS boss for safeguarding the country’s borders during the Ebola outbreak.
Mr Mukhtar Akoshile, the Executive Secretary, AYPDM commended the NIS boss for providing easy avenue for both foreign and local investors in the nation’s economy by bringing in expatriates.
According to him, what used to be an uphill task has been made easy and expatriate quota can be processed with the greatest of ease.
He said that the act had enhanced the confidence of foreigners in the Nigerian business environment and had given the locals the needed boost to venture unknown business area. (NAN)