Abuja- Colleagues of Nollywood veteran actor, Peter Bunor, on Saturday paid glowing tributes to him, describing his death as an irreplaceable loss to the movie industry and the nation at large. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the son of the deceased, Bunor Jnr, had on Friday posted on his Facebook page: “ In the early hours of today, my father, friend, teacher, confidant passed on.’’ NAN also reports that the late actor died in Asaba, the Delta capital. Bunor, who suffered a stroke some years ago, was said to have complained about neglect by his colleagues. Hanks Anuku, an actor, described the deceased as a man who would be remembered for his unquenchable energy and one who “ exudes the demeanor of last man standing.’’ “Everyone who knew him can attest to the fact that he carried within him an undying urge toward selflessness. “ He made himself readily available and good to go no matter the situation. “ We will miss him greatly; I pray that Nollywood will ever remain the same with his indefinite absence,’’ he said. Another Nollywood actor, Miss Sarah Lilian, told NAN that Bunor was one of the industry’s patriarchs and pioneers. Lilian said his death would create a great vacuum in the movie community. “Though Peter Bunor has been absent from the scene for a while before his death, we must give it to him even in death. “ He was a great actor, father and a good role interpreter and most of us benefitted from his wealth of experience,’’ she said. But Hamida Suleiman, an actress, expressed disappointment at the attitude of the Actors Guild of Nigeria. The actress, who accused the guild of abandoning members whenever they had challenges, said: “ Here we go again, what is really happening to Nollywood stars? “ Now my heart goes out to the family. I am very disappointed at the Actors Guild of Nigeria for not giving adequate care to members suffering from one health challenge or the other. “ It is not enough to come out with candles every time, most deaths would not have occurred if we knew what to do on time. “We need to sit up and see how we can address the challenges of members, especially health wise. “ Rest in peace, Peter Bunor.” Bunor had appeared in many soaps such as Cock Crow at Dawn, Memorial Hospital and Checkmate as well as numerous movies such as Living in Bondage. He is survived by his children and grand children. (NAN)